# Improving Code Efficiency

`Profiler`: A profiler is a tool that measures the resources that our code is using, giving us a better understanding of what's going on. In particular, they help us see how the memory is allocated and how the time spent.

`pprofile3`: pprofile is a Line-granularity, thread-aware deterministic and statistic pure-python profiler

Line-granularity, thread-aware deterministic and statistic pure-python profiler. Line granularity allows locating precisely where time is spent in code. Thread awareness automatically propagates profiling to all threads (all threads in statistic mode, or threads spawned by profiled code in deterministic mode). Deterministic profiling gives precise measures, but at a large speed cost (best used on minimal test scenario). Statistic profiling gives rough measure, but has an extremely low overhead (suitable for live code profiling). Does not require marking methods to profile, allowing non-method profiling (module imports, class & function declarations and other module-level code). Can produce callgrind output. [more...](https://manpages.debian.org/unstable/python3-pprofile/pprofile3.1.en.html)

`kcachgrind`: KCachegrind is a visualization tool for the profiling data generated by Cachegrind and Calltree (they profile data file format is upwards compatible). But as most visualization possibilities of KCachegrind depend on call relationships, you get much more out of it if your are using Calltree as profile tool. [more...](https://kcachegrind.github.io/html/Home.html)

## Timing Functions
`time`: The time command is used to determine how long a given command takes to run. It is useful for testing the performance of your scripts and commands.[more...]

```
$ time sleep 1

real	0m1.010s
user	0m0.001s
sys	0m0.003s
```
* real or total or elapsed (wall clock time) is the time from start to finish of the call. It is the time from the moment you hit the Enter key until the moment the wget command is completed.
* user - amount of CPU time spent in user mode.
* system or sys - amount of CPU time spent in kernel mode.

## Parallel Operations


